Remove the concept of supported temporality, keep preferred (#2154)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification: specification/metrics/sdk.md

idiomatic approach, for example, as `OnForceFlush` and `OnShutdown` callback
functions.

> The SDK SHOULD provide a way to allow preferred [Aggregation

Reviewer: nit:

```suggestion
The SDK SHOULD provide a way to allow the preferred [Aggregation
```
```suggestion
The SDK SHOULD provide a way to allow preferred [Aggregation
```

Temporality](./datamodel.md#temporality) to be specified for a `MetricReader`
instance during the setup (e.g. initialization, registration, etc.) time. If the

> preferred temporality is explicitly specified then the SDK SHOULD respect that,
> otherwise use Cumulative.

Reviewer 2: We should strengthen the normative requirements here to ensure compativility and keep error behavior explicitly to avoid ambiguity.

```suggestion
preferred temporality is explicitly specified then the SDK MUST provide data using that temporality if it can.
If the SDK is not capable of providing data with the explicitly specified temporality it MUST be treated as an error.
Otherwise, if no preferred temporality is specified, the SDK SHOULD provide data with Cumulative temporality.
```

Author: > MUST provide data using that temporality if it can.

MUST and "if it can" are kind of opposite, is it a MUST or not.

The reason not to use must is because 20 lines below we have:

> [OpenTelemetry SDK](../overview.md#sdk)
authors MAY choose the best idiomatic design for their language:

* Whether to treat the temporality settings as recommendation or enforcement.
  For example, if the temporality is set to Delta, would the SDK want to perform
  Cumulative->Delta conversion for an [Asynchronous
  Counter](./api.md#asynchronous-counter), or downgrade it to a
  [Gauge](./datamodel.md#gauge), or keep consuming it as Cumulative due to the
  consideration of [memory
  efficiency](./supplementary-guidelines.md#memory-management)?

Reviewer 2: > > MUST provide data using that temporality if it can.
> 
> MUST and "if it can" are kind of opposite, is it a MUST or not.
> 
> The reason not to use must is because 20 lines below we have:
> 
> > [OpenTelemetry SDK](../overview.md#sdk)
> > authors MAY choose the best idiomatic design for their language:
> 
> * Whether to treat the temporality settings as recommendation or enforcement.
>   For example, if the temporality is set to Delta, would the SDK want to perform
>   Cumulative->Delta conversion for an [Asynchronous
>   Counter](./api.md#asynchronous-counter), or downgrade it to a
>   [Gauge](./datamodel.md#gauge), or keep consuming it as Cumulative due to the
>   consideration of [memory
>   efficiency](./supplementary-guidelines.md#memory-management)?

Gotcha :+1: . Thoughts on being explicit with the errors response?

Reviewer 3: I think most (all?) implementations currently do the cumulative -> delta conversion, right? This would not be an error state. So since everything is allowed, do you mean that there should be a standard way of letting users know what is happening?

Author: golang does not, and probably other languages may not do as well (not sure).

Reviewer 2: > Thoughts on being explicit with the errors response?

Wait, how was this resolved?
